Improve web documentation and document styles (#1628)
jupyter-book/mystmd: docs/website-style.md

This page describes some common ways to do so.

:::{caution} This is still a work in progress
We're still building out custom CSS functionality with the MyST engine.
Follow and comment on the issues linked below to help us improve it!
:::

## Use content blocks

:::{warning} CSS class support is very limited
Currently, you can only use CSS classes that are pre-loaded by MyST from Tailwind CSS, or defined in the HTML theme (see below for examples of both).
See these issues to track some of this:

- Defining your own CSS classes: https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/857
- Load extra Tailwind CSS classes when they're used on a page: https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1617
:::

[Content blocks](../blocks.md) allow you to attach arbitrary metadata to chunks of content.
You can attach one or more CSS classes by defining a `class` attribute for a block.
For example the following:

```md
+++ {"class": "col-gutter-right"}
Right-styled

+++

Normal-styled
```

Results in:

+++ {"class": "col-gutter-right"}
Right-styled

+++

Normal-styled

## Use `div` and `span` elements

You can attach classes directly to [`div` and `span` elements](#div-and-span).

> {myst:directive}`div` and {myst:role}`span` are analogous to their HTML counterparts. The HTML elements can also be given `style` options, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{myst:directive}`div` and {myst:role}`span` are analogous to their HTML counterparts. Unlike the directive and roles, the HTML elements can also be given `style` options, e.g.
```

For example:

<div class="col-gutter-right" style="font-weight: bold;">Here's my div</div>

> Here's some <span class="col-gutter-right" style="font-weight:bold;">Span</span> content

Reviewer 2: Note that inline elements can't be in a column though, can update this to a slightly different example!

---

MyST has basic support for styling your content with CSS.
This page describes some common ways to do so.

:::{caution} This is still a work in progress
We're still building out custom CSS functionality with the MyST engine.
Follow and comment on the issues linked below to help us improve it!
:::

## Use content blocks

:::{warning} CSS class support is very limited
Currently, you can only use CSS classes that are pre-loaded by MyST from Tailwind CSS, or defined in the HTML theme (see below for examples of both).
See these issues to track some of this:

- Defining your own CSS classes: https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/857
- Load extra Tailwind CSS classes when they're used on a page: https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues/1617
:::

[Content blocks](../blocks.md) allow you to attach arbitrary metadata to chunks of content.
You can attach one or more CSS classes by defining a `class` attribute for a block.
For example the following:

```md
+++ {"class": "col-gutter-right"}
Right-styled

+++

Normal-styled
```

Results in:

+++ {"class": "col-gutter-right"}
Right-styled

+++

Normal-styled

## Use `div` and `span` elements

> You can attach classes directly to [`div` and `span` elements](#div-and-span).
> This works with `style` properties as well.
> 
> For example:
> 
> <div class="col-gutter-right" style="font-weight: bold;">Here's my div</div>
> 
> Here's some <span class="col-gutter-right" style="font-weight:bold;">Span</span> content
> 
> ## Add CSS classes to directives
> 
> :::{note} Not all directives support the `:class:` option
> If you wish to attach classes to a directive that doesn't seem to support it, please [open an issue](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues)
> :::
> 
> Many directives and content blocks have a `:class:` option that can be used to add arbitrary CSS classes.
> For example, below we add a CSS class to an admonition directive to snap it to the right:
> 
> ````md
> ```{note}
> :class: col-gutter-right
> I'm on the right!
> ```
> ````
> 
> ```{note}
> :class: col-gutter-right
> I'm on the right!
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can attach classes directly to [`div` and `span` elements](#div-and-span).

{myst:directive}`div` and {myst:role}`span` are analogous to their HTML counterparts. The HTML elements can also be given `style` options, e.g.

<div class="col-gutter-right" style="font-weight: bold;">Here's my div</div>

Here's some <span class="col-gutter-right" style="font-weight:bold;">Span</span> content

## Add CSS classes to directives

:::{note} Not all directives support the `:class:` option
If you wish to attach classes to a directive that doesn't seem to support it, please [open an issue](https://github.com/jupyter-book/mystmd/issues)
:::

Many directives and content blocks have a `:class:` option that can be used to add arbitrary CSS classes.
For example, below we add a CSS class to an admonition directive to snap it to the right:

````md
```{note}
:class: col-gutter-right
I'm on the right!
```
````

```{note}
:class: col-gutter-right
I'm on the right!
```
```
